Hasan Welcome back.
So we've just started the learning process over these 1000 iterations.
We just got the current state here that was the first step.
And now according to the curing process next step we have to tackle step to laying around an action
that can lead to a next possible state that is taking an action such that the reward of that action
plays in the state.
That we got just before no current state is larger than zero.
Then we'll get this action randomly from these actions.
Verifying this and then we'll reach the next date because by plain inaction we reached the next date
and we get the reward obtained by playing that action 80 in the state esty.
So back to our code let's implement this.
All right so what do we have to do.
First we have to type some code that will give us the possible actions that we can play when being in
the current state.
So you know we are in this current state and we can only play some certain actions where we have a positive
reward in the road corresponding to the states.
For example let's say that the current state that we picked randomly in this line of code is the state
here corresponding to this row.
Well the only actions that we can play now are the actions to 6 or 7 right.
So that's what we have together right now the possible actions that we can play one being in this current
state.
Therefore the best way to do that is to make a list.
We'll make a list that will contain these possible actions that we can play.
And let's go this list playable actions.
You know the actions that are playable and will first initialized this list to an empty list which is
how we do it in Python that is was only simple square brackets that initializes an empty list then.
Now we're going to append in this list the actions where the word of playing that action in the current
state is larger than zero and therefore what we simply have to do is get to the row in the matrix of
the word corresponding to the current state.
So let's say this is this row again and then we're going to iterate it as we're going to loop over all
the columns of this row here and we're only going to get the actions that is the columns where we get
a one here because these correspond to the actions that can exactly be played.
You know that can take us to a neighbor location from the location we're in right now in this current
state.
So we have to make a second for loop.
And then again take a looping variable we can take again but it's preferable to take another one.
So let's take J.
J.
In range.
And again we have to specify the range of values that J is going to take and j will actually respond
to the columns that we'll inspect.
One by one to find the ones that is when the reward equals one.
Therefore Jay is simply going to be in the range from 0 the first column to 11 to 12 column the last
column.
But again remember in range we only have to put the upper bound and upper bound is again excluded.
And therefore we have to go up to 12 that way J will go over each of the 12 columns from 0 to 11.
All right.
And then we're ready to start this second follow up.
And so for each of the 12 values of J What are we going to do.
We're going to check if the reward of the action J played in the current state is larger than zero and
therefore that's exactly what we're going to type here.
If the reward of the action J played in the current state if the action J played in the current state
is larger than zero then that means that J is a playable action that is an action that we can play and
therefore in that case what do we have to do.
Well we have to bend it to our list of the playable actions.
That is the actions that we can play when being in the current state.
SC OK.
And therefore how can we spend a value that is our playable action J which verifies this to our list
of playable actions.
Well the trick is to take first our list of playable actions and then just add that and then here we
go.
The first one here spent just pressing enter and then in the parenthesis you just need to input what
you want to happen which is the action.
Perfect.
And then we don't even have to do an else because an ELSE corresponds to the situation where the reward
of the action J played in the current state is below or equal to zero.
And therefore in that case we won't append anything and Indians will get our list of playable actions
containing only the actions that we can play when being in the current state.
SD perfect.
So that gives us the list of actions that we can play.
And now the only remaining thing that we need to do well it is first to get out of this if condition
and also to get out this fall because the for the second for loop with the J was only meant to give
us the list of playable actions that we can play.
And now its done.
So the only thing that we have to do left is we go back to our slide well is to play actually a random
action.
Eighty one random action 80 from this list of possible actions that we just gather and therefore where
are we going to do you know.
You know how to do it.
Now we are going to use again the random module but this time a different function than the rent in
function.
Why is that.
Because the run in function can we take a random number between two given numbers but here we have to
take a random number from a list which is our list of playable actions and the function that does the
trick.
What we want to get is the choice function which will take randomly an element of a list.
All right.
So let's do this let's play this random action from our list of playable actions.
So since we're going to use the random module again which is from NUMP library Well we're going to call
non-Thai again as a short get MP then run them again and then as we just said the choice which must
be here.
Yes the choice function which will take an input of course the list from which we take randomly one
element and what is that list.
Well that's of course playable actions.
Perfect.
Now let's see let's see what we have to do next.
Well we're done with Step 2 actually played around the action we just got there animation effectively.
Now as I said let's also tackle this third step here because it's really simple.
It is to reach the next state and get the reward are as C.A.T..
So how can we reach the next date when playing that action.
Well it's really direct because indeed the action corresponds to where you're going and where are you
going with correspondent to the next state.
Because this is the next location that you were led to by playing that action and therefore what we
can simply do here directly is just here.
Specify that this random choice for more playable actions will exactly be this next state right.
The next state is that action taken randomly from our playable actions because indeed that action leads
us to the next state that gets to the next location.
All right.
And that's it.
Now we're ready to move on to the next step which is the interesting step actually because that's where
we will compute the temporal difference.
And finally in the final tutorial of this part to building the AI solution with Q learning Well they
the Q value at each iteration following the bellmen equation.